Open main1.py. Before running it, what do you expect this program to do? 
I expect it to write greetings and my favorite color. 
Now right click on the window and select “Run Python File in Terminal”. Click in the bottom panel, and answer the question. Describe what happened. 

What do you think the program did with what you typed?
The program typed what I asked it to type. It typed my favorite color and a greeting.


Open main2.py. Before running it, describe how this is different than main1.py. 
It is different because it has color= input and print (color)
What do you think the color = input() will do? 
I think it tells the program that the color is whatever the input is.
Run the program in the terminal and answer the question. Did the program do what you expected?
Maybe. 

Open main3.py. Before running it, describe how this is different than main2.py. 
It has a new variable (if color =)
What is happening on lines 11–14? 

Why are lines 12 and 14 indented? 
if and else, the computer is being programmed do give and if/else response. 
Run the program and answer the question. What happens if you don’t capitalize Red? 
It doesn't load the color.
What does this tell you about "color"?
It needs to be capatalized.


Open main4.py. Before running it, describe how this is different than main2.py. 
Red is capatlized and lowercase.
What problem is this trying to solve? 
the need to capatlize the color
Run the program and answer the question. What happens if you use some other capitalization scheme (i.e., “RED” or “reD“)?
It prints what I typed rather than the response. 


Open main5.py. What do you expect line 11 to do? 
address the lowercase
What problem is it trying to solve? 
lowercase lettering of the word red
Run the program and answer the question. What happens if you add spaces before or after the word (i.e., “  RED  “ or “ red”)?

It says invalid syntax

Open main6.py. How is line 11 different than main5.py? 
.strip
What would you guess .strip() is doing? 
adding space
Run the program and answer the question. Is there another way of writing “red” that will break this logic?

I'm not sure. 

Open main7.py. Before running this program, how do you expect this to be different than main6.py? 
elif
What is the purpose of line 11? 
I'm not sure
Run the program and answer the question.



Open main8.py. What is the purpose of line 11? 
While color is..
Why are lines 12–19 indented? 
because they fall under the variable while. 
Run the program. What would happen if line 12 were moved before line 11 (and no longer indented)? 
It would print, Sorry Try Again. But it wouldn't be a syntax error. 
Make that change and run the program again. To end any Python program, you can type ctrl-c.



Open main9.py. What is happening on line 12? 
While color statement 
What is the purpose of “count”? 
to count the amount of colors
What is happening on line 22? 
it is providing an answer. 
Run the program.


*Extra credit:* open main10.py. Add a comment to each line describing what it is doing (a comment follows a pound sign [#]). 

Commit your changes and push them back to the repository. 

Did you do the extra credit?